Flow:
1. Installed node packages using (npm init -y)
2. Created a src folder containing the app.js file
3. App.js builds the application and decides what 
    routes, middleware exists and what the backend can
    in general do.
4. Then outside the src folder, we create a server.js
    resposible to start the application. It starts 
    accepting requests from the application.
5. Then in the src folder, we make a new dir called 
    config which contanis database.js
6. This is the database server that we have created 
    which will hold all our data models and data.
7. For this we have to first create a project in mongodb 
    and create a cluster for storing all of our data in it.
8. Then the credentials of the created cluster must be 
    stored in .env file and these credentials are then used 
    to start and connect our db to the backend server.
9. Now once our db and backend server are connected, 
    we create a new dir in src folder called models where we
    store and define different schemas required for our application
10. After defining a basic schema, we create a routes folder
    to declare various routes from which users can get/post/put,etc
    requests to the server.
11. First we define the auth router which will handle auth requests
    like register, login, signin, signout, etc.
12. We first create the authentication router in auth.routes.js inside 
    the routes directory. This file contains all the routes related to 
    authentication, such as user registration, login, logout, password 
    reset, etc.
13. The job of auth.routes.js is to match incoming requests based on 
    their HTTP method (GET, POST, etc.) and URL path (/register, /login, 
    etc.), and then call the appropriate function from auth.controller.js.
14. For example, when a user fills out the registration form and clicks 
    Register, the frontend sends a POST request to /api/auth/register. The 
    server receives this request, and app.js forwards it to authRouter 
    because the URL begins with /api/auth. The router checks whether the 
    request matches the POST /register route. If it does, it calls the 
    corresponding function (for example, registerUser) defined in 
    auth.controller.js. The controller then performs the registration 
    logic, such as validating the input, checking whether the user already 
    exists, saving the user to the database, and sending a response back 
    to the client.
15. Now in the contrller, we define the logic of registering the user. 
    This contains first checking if the username or email adress is already 
    registered in the db. If it exists, we respond with a 400 status code 
    and a message stating the same. 
16. Once the username and password are found to be unique only, the password 
    is hashed using the bcrypt library into a different format and then the 
    username, email and the hash of the password are stored in the database. 
17. After storing the data in the db, a jwt token is generated for the user. 
    A jwt token requires a jwt secret which is generated from a website called
    jwtsecrets.com, and once we obtain this secret, we store it in the .env file
    and while creating a jwt token, the user info such as user_id, username is 
    used along with this jwt secret.
18. Now once the token is created and all the logic in the controller function 
    is executed, the token is sent to the client side using "res.cookie("token", token)
    The cookie helps the browser prove the user's identity on future requests and 
    is stored in the user's browser.Later, whenever the user sends another request,
    the browser automatically includes that cookie (depending on how the cookie is 
    configured and whether the request qualifies).
19. Similarly a login router in created in the authRouter file and a loginUserController
    function is defined in the authController. This login controller takes in the email
    and password via the post method and then checks for the user with the same email available. 
    Once the user is found in the db using the finOne function, the bcrypt.compare() method is 
    used to compare the current entered password and the hashed password stored in the db.
    If the password is matched, the status code 200 is returned or else and 400 status code is returned
20. The next functionality is the logout function. Similarly initially for logout, we create a route
    in the authRouter file and then start defining the function of logoutUserController in the authController.
21. The main logic of logging out is to remove the token from the cookies of the user and then adding that 
    token to a blacklist database so that, that token isnt again misused. For this, again in our models dir
    we create a new file called blacklist.model.js where we'll define the schema of this blacklist db.
22. The blacklist schema takes in the token and also the timestamp. After defining the schema, we first add 
    the token to the blacklist schema from the logoutUserController function and then we remove the token from the
    cookies of the user using res.clearCookie("token").


Document Verification and Email Verification Implementations:

23. The verification request is connected to an applicant, an organization, a workflow template and a current
    workflow step. The workflow step decides what the applicant has to complete next. For example, the current
    step can be an email step or a document step.

24. The email verification flow starts when the applicant clicks the Verify Email button in the frontend. The
    frontend sends a POST request to /api/verification-requests/:requestId/email-verification. The backend first
    checks the login cookie and confirms that the logged-in user has the user role.

25. The email verification service then checks that the verification request exists, belongs to the logged-in
    applicant, is not completed or rejected, and currently points to an email verification step. These checks are
    important because the frontend must not be trusted for authorization decisions.

26. After the request is validated, the backend creates a VerificationStepExecution record for the email step.
    This record stores a randomly generated token, an expiry time and a verified value set to false. The token is
    then added to a link pointing to the frontend route /verify-email/:token.

27. The email is sent to the applicant's email address using Nodemailer. The email link opens the frontend first.
    The frontend reads the token from the URL and calls GET /api/email/verify/:token. The backend searches the
    database for an active execution containing that token.

28. When the token is valid and has not expired, the backend changes the email execution status to completed and
    changes metadata.verified to true. It then calls the workflow engine so that the next workflow step can be
    selected. The frontend displays the success or failure message returned by the backend.

29. The document verification flow starts when the applicant selects a file and submits the document form. The
    frontend creates a FormData object containing the document file, title and documentType. It sends this data to
    POST /api/verification-requests/:requestId/documents.

30. The document upload route uses authentication middleware, role middleware and Multer. Authentication identifies
    the user from the JWT cookie. Role middleware allows only applicants with the user role. Multer checks the
    uploaded file type, limits the file size to 5 MB and saves the file in uploads/documents.

31. The document controller validates that a file, title and document type were provided. It loads the verification
    request and checks that its current workflow step is a document step. It also checks that the uploaded document
    type matches the type configured in the workflow step.

32. The document service contains the main document rules. It checks that the request belongs to the logged-in
    applicant, that the request is not completed or rejected, and that the current step accepts documents. It also
    prevents another document from being added for the same request and workflow step.

33. Applicant ownership is kept in a separate document-authorization.service.js file. The helper checks request
    ownership using both the request ID and applicant ID. For a document ID, it loads the related verification
    request and confirms that the request belongs to the applicant.

34. The ownership checks are used for all applicant document operations:
    - Uploading a document
    - Listing documents for a request
    - Viewing a document by ID
    - Deleting a document

35. This authorization is implemented in the service layer instead of only in the frontend. The frontend route
    protection improves the user experience, but it cannot protect the backend because a user can send requests
    directly without using the frontend.

36. After the document is stored, the workflow engine executes the document step. The document verification service
    creates or reuses a VerificationStepExecution record with an in_progress status. It then sends the file to
    Tesseract OCR and chooses a parser based on the document type.

37. The OCR text and extracted values are saved in the VerificationDocument metadata field. The extracted values
    can include a name, date of birth, Aadhaar number, PAN number or driving license number, depending on the parser.
    OCR only extracts information. It does not by itself prove that the document is genuine or belongs to the applicant.

38. After OCR processing, the document remains pending for verifier review. This is intentional. Automated text
    extraction and human approval are treated as two different responsibilities. The document is not considered
    finally verified only because OCR succeeded.

39. A document step can now allow the applicant to continue while the verifier is reviewing the document. This is
    controlled by the workflow step configuration:

    config: {
        allowApplicantToContinueWhilePending: true
    }

40. If allowApplicantToContinueWhilePending is false, the document step blocks the applicant from moving to the
    next step. If the property is not provided, the current implementation allows continuation by default. This
    default was selected so existing workflows can continue without requiring every old step to be updated.

41. When continuation is allowed, the workflow engine moves the request to the next applicant step, but it does not
    complete the document execution. The document reviewStatus stays pending and the related execution stays
    in_progress until a verifier approves or rejects the document.

42. The applicant page loads the documents belonging to the request and checks the document for the current workflow
    step. If a document is pending, the upload form is hidden and the applicant sees a message saying that the
    document is waiting for verifier review. This prevents the applicant from repeatedly uploading the same document.

43. The verifier sees pending documents through the verifier dashboard. When the verifier approves a document, the
    document reviewStatus becomes approved and the related execution becomes completed. When the verifier rejects a
    document, the document becomes rejected, the execution becomes failed and the request becomes rejected.

44. If the applicant has already continued to another step, verifier approval must not move the applicant backwards
    or skip the applicant's current step. The verifier service therefore advances the workflow only when the approved
    document is still the request's current step. If the applicant is already on another step, only the old document
    execution is completed.

45. The workflow request is marked completed only after every active required workflow step has a completed execution.
    This preserves the main rule of the workflow: the applicant may continue while a document is under review, but the
    complete verification request cannot be marked completed until the required document is approved.


Architectural Decisions:

46. The existing layered architecture is retained. Routes receive HTTP requests, middleware handles authentication
    and file parsing, controllers handle HTTP responses, services contain business rules, models define MongoDB data
    and the workflow engine coordinates transitions.

47. Applicant ownership was added in a small authorization service instead of adding a large authorization framework.
    This keeps the change easy to understand while making the checks reusable across upload, list, view and delete.

48. VerificationStepExecution is used to track the result of each individual workflow step. VerificationDocument
    stores file and OCR information, while the execution record stores whether the workflow step itself is complete.
    Keeping these responsibilities separate allows a document to be OCR processed but still wait for human approval.

49. Continuation is configurable per workflow step rather than automatically enabled for every document. Some
    documents may be safe to review later, while other documents may be required before the applicant can continue.

50. The implementation does not use a queue, a new database, or a new document model. This keeps the feature small
    and matches the current size of the project.


Advantages of the Current Implementation:

51. Applicants receive immediate feedback instead of seeing an upload form that allows repeated submissions.

52. Applicants can complete independent workflow steps while a document waits for a verifier.

53. The final request cannot be marked completed until all required executions are completed.

54. Applicant ownership is checked on the backend, which protects against users changing request IDs manually.

55. Email verification uses a short-lived random token and a database execution record, so the token can be checked
    and invalidated after successful use.

56. The design reuses the current workflow engine and model structure, so the feature does not introduce unnecessary
    duplicate workflow logic.


Disadvantages and Current Limitations:

57. The token is currently stored as plain text in the database. If the database is exposed, active email tokens could
    be used by another person. A future version should store a hash of the token instead.

58. Document files are stored on the local server. This can cause problems when the application runs on multiple
    servers or when the server is restarted. Object storage such as S3 would be more suitable for production.

59. Multer stores a file before all request and workflow validation is complete. If validation, database creation or
    OCR fails, an unused file can remain in the uploads folder.

60. OCR runs during the upload request. Large documents or many simultaneous uploads can make the API slow. A
    background job would be better when the number of users increases.

61. The database updates for the document, execution and request are not inside one transaction. A failure between
    these operations can leave partial state that needs to be repaired.

62. The current parser supports Aadhaar, PAN and Driving License. Other allowed document types do not yet have
    document-specific parsing logic.

63. The applicant page fetches document status when it loads or after an upload. It does not currently use real-time
    updates, so the applicant may need to refresh or revisit the page to see a verifier decision.


Future Scope:

64. Add email notifications when a document is approved or rejected. The rejection reason should be included so the
    applicant knows what must be corrected.

65. Add polling or WebSocket updates so the applicant sees verifier decisions without refreshing the page.

66. Add a document processing status such as uploaded, processing, processed and failed. This will make OCR failures
    visible instead of treating the upload and OCR work as one operation.

67. Move OCR and document parsing to a background worker or the existing ML service. The API can return quickly and
    the worker can retry failed processing.

68. Store only a hash of email tokens, add indexes for token lookup and enforce token expiry and one-time use at the
    database level where possible.

69. Add unique indexes for one document per verification request and workflow step, and one active execution per
    request and workflow step. Application checks alone can race when two requests arrive at the same time.

70. Add MongoDB transactions for related updates and add cleanup handling for files that do not receive a database
    record.

71. Add authorization for verifier actions and file viewing so a verifier can access only documents assigned to that
    verifier or organization. Applicant ownership and verifier ownership are separate rules.

72. Add automated backend and frontend tests for email tokens, ownership failures, duplicate uploads, rejected
    documents, continuation settings and final completion rules.


